Basic Authentication, also referred to as Basic Auth,
is the simplest protocol available for performing Web Service authentication over HTTP.
Basic Auth only requires a username and password.
The client calling the Web Service takes these two credentials,
converts them to a single base 64 encoded
value and passes it along in the authentication HTTP header.
The server compares the values passed into
the username and password credentials it has stored.
If it matches, the server fulfills the requests and provides access to the data.
If the authentication HTTP header is missing or the password doesn't match the username,
the server denies access and returns a 401 status code,
which means the request is unauthorized.
API Key Authentication is another technique used to secure Web Services,
which requires the API to be accessed with a unique key.
This unique key is like the pass code to your phone.